=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Affix::Platform - Platform and Feature Support Information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Affix;    # Not 'use Affix::Platform;'
    if ( Affix::Platform::AggrByValue() ) {
        affix 'libfoo', 'foobar', [ Struct [ x => Int ] ], Int;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Affix works a lot of places but some features require certain combinations of OS, ABI, etc. For those complex
situations, various flags have been exposed.

=head1 Platform flags

You might need to know a little about the system so...

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::DC_Version()>

Returns dyncall's version as a string such as "1.5-current".

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::DC_Major()>

Returns dyncall's major version number.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::DC_Minor()>

Returns dyncall's minor version number.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::DC_Patch()>

Returns dyncall's patch level. dyncall refers to this as their 'teeny' version number which is usually C<0> and unused.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::DC_Stage()>

Returns "current" if dyncall's source is taken from the repo or "release" for stable, archived versions.

=begin clutter

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::DC_RawVersion()>

Returns the raw value of dyncall's version number.

=end clutter

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OS()>

Returns one of the following values indicating what platform the dyncall library was built on:

=over

=item "Win64"

=item "Win32"

If dyncall was built on a 32bit version of Windows, 64bit integers are unsupported even if your perl is built to handle
them.

=item "macOS"

=item "iOS"

=item "Linux"

=item "FreeBSD"

=item "OpenBSD"

=item "NetBSD"

=item "DragonFly BSD"

=item "Nintendo DS"

=item "PlayStation Portable"

=item "Haiku"

BeOS lives!

=item "Plan9"

=item "VMS"

=item "Minix"

=item "Unknown"

dyncall couldn't figure it out

=back

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::Compiler()>

Returns one of the following:

=over

=item "Intel"

=item "MSVC"

=item "Clang"

=item "GNU"

=item "Watcom"

=item "ppc"

=item "Oracle"

=item "Unknown"

=back

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::Architecture()>

Returns one of the following:

=over

=item "AMD64"

=item "Intelx86"

=item "Itanium"

=item "PPC64"

=item "PPC32"

=item "MIPS64"

=item "MIPS"

=item "ARM"

=item "ARM64"

=item "SuperH"

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SuperH

=item "SPARC64"

=item "SPARC"

=item "Unknown"

=back

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MS_Cygwin()>

Returns a true value if Affix was built on Windows with the L<Cygwin|https://www.cygwin.com/> version of the compiler.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MS_MinGW()>

Returns a true value if Affix was built on Windows with the L<MinGW|http://mingw.osdn.io/index.html> version of the
compiler.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MS_CRT()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built Windows with the Microsoft Visual C/C++ Runtime.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::ARM_Thumb()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on an ARM platform which included the 16bit instructions found in ARMv4T and
later.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::ARM_EABI()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on ARM with support for the more efficient EABI calling conventions.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::ARM_OABI()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on an ARM platform with OABI calling conventions support.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MIPS_O32()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on MIPS with O32 (only 32bit) calling conventions support.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MIPS_N64()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on MIPS with N64 (native 64bit) calling conventions support.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MIPS_N32()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on MIPS with N32 (native 32bit) calling conventions support.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::MIPS_EABI()>

Returns a true value if dyncall was built on MIPS with L<EABI calling conventions
support|https://sourceware.org/legacy-ml/binutils/2003-06/msg00436.html>.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OBJ_PE()>

Returns true if the platform's executable/object type is in Microsoft's
L<PE|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable_Executable> format.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OBJ_Mach()>

Returns true if the platform's executable/object type is in Apple's L<Mach-O|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mach-O>
format.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OBJ_ELF()>

Returns true if the platform's executable/object type is in the generic
L<ELF|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable_and_Linkable_Format> format.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OBJ_ELF64()>

Returns true if the platform's executable/object type is in a 64-bit flavor of the
L<ELF|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable_and_Linkable_Format> format.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OBJ_ELF32()>

Returns true if the platform's executable/object type is in a 32-bit flavor of the
L<ELF|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable_and_Linkable_Format> format.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::OBJ()>

Returns one of the following:

=over

=item "PE"

=item "Mach-O"

=item "64-bit ELF"

=item "32-bit ELF"

=item "ELF"

=item "Unknown"

=back

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::HardFloat()>

Returns a true value if 1) the system is running on an ARM or MIPS platform and 2) floating point math is done on
hardware.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::Syscall()>

Returns a true value if syscall calling convention is supported.

=head2 C<Affix::Platform::AggrByValue()>

Returns true if aggregates (structs, arrays, etc.) can be passed by value.

=head1 Memory flags

If you're doing something really neat, you'll need these.

=head2 Sizeof

These return the size of various data types according to the C L<sizeof()|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sizeof>
operator.

=over

=item C<SIZEOF_BOOL>

=item C<SIZEOF_CHAR>

=item C<SIZEOF_SCHAR>

=item C<SIZEOF_UCHAR>

=item C<SIZEOF_WCHAR>

=item C<SIZEOF_SHORT>

=item C<SIZEOF_USHORT>

=item C<SIZEOF_INT>

=item C<SIZEOF_UINT>

=item C<SIZEOF_LONG>

=item C<SIZEOF_ULONG>

=item C<SIZEOF_LONGLONG>

=item C<SIZEOF_ULONGLONG>

=item C<SIZEOF_FLOAT>

=item C<SIZEOF_DOUBLE>

=item C<SIZEOF_SIZE_T>

=item C<SIZEOF_INTPTR_T>

=back

=head2 Memory alignment

These can be used to calculate the layout of aggregates such as L<C
structs|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Struct_(C_programming_language)>.

=over

=item C<BYTE_ALIGN>

Platform-dependant memory alignment size. Use this to calculate offsets and padding inside structs.

=item C<ALIGNOF_BOOL>

=item C<ALIGNOF_CHAR>

=item C<ALIGNOF_UCHAR>

=item C<ALIGNOF_SCHAR>

=item C<ALIGNOF_WCHAR>

=item C<ALIGNOF_SHORT>

=item C<ALIGNOF_USHORT>

=item C<ALIGNOF_INT>

=item C<ALIGNOF_UINT>

=item C<ALIGNOF_LONG>

=item C<ALIGNOF_ULONG>

=item C<ALIGNOF_LONGLONG>

=item C<ALIGNOF_ULONGLONG>

=item C<ALIGNOF_FLOAT>

=item C<ALIGNOF_DOUBLE>

=item C<ALIGNOF_SIZE_T>

=item C<ALIGNOF_INTPTR_T>

=back

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms found in the Artistic License
2. Other copyrights, terms, and conditions may apply to data transmitted through this module.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=begin stopwords

dyncall BeOS ARMv4T SuperH ppc iOS OpenBSD NetBSD syscall

=end stopwords

=cut
